Send a message to your agent.

By default the agent is invoked remotely on Foundry. When a single
argument is provided it is treated as the message and the agent name
is auto-detected from azure.yaml. With two arguments the first is the
agent name and the second is the message.

Use --input-file/-f to send the contents of a file as the request body
instead of a positional message argument. This is useful for structured
or large payloads with the invocations protocol, or for sending a complete
JSON-RPC request with the a2a protocol.

Use --local to target a locally running agent (started via 'azd ai agent run')
instead of Foundry. The a2a protocol is remote-only and cannot be used with
--local.

Sessions are persisted per-agent — consecutive invokes reuse the same
session automatically. Pass --new-session to force a reset.

Use --version to invoke a specific deployed agent version. When provided,
azd creates or reuses a hosted agent session backed by that version.

For agents configured with header-based isolation, pass --user-identity
on each invoke. Locally it is sent as the x-agent-user-id header; for
remote invokes it is sent as the x-ms-user-identity header.

Use --call-id to send a call ID with a local invoke. It is sent as the
x-agent-foundry-call-id header and applies only to local invocations; it is
ignored for remote requests.

Use --client-header to send custom x-client-* request headers in "Name: Value"
format (repeatable). The responses and invocations protocols forward the
x-client-* header family to the agent; other header names are rejected, and
the flag is not supported with the a2a protocol (which does not propagate
x-client-* headers). For identity headers use --user-identity or --call-id.

Use --output raw (or -o raw) to dump the unmodified server response (status
line, headers, and body verbatim) to stdout. Useful for debugging server
behavior and inspecting response headers (for example, the agent version
header). Friendly summary lines like "Session:" and "Invocation:" are
suppressed in raw mode.

Usage:
  agent invoke [name] [message] [flags]

Examples:
  # Invoke the remote agent on Foundry (auto-detects agent from azure.yaml)
  azd ai agent invoke "Hello!"

  # Invoke a specific remote agent by name
  azd ai agent invoke my-agent "Hello!"

  # Invoke using a specific protocol
  azd ai agent invoke --protocol invocations "Hello!"

  # Invoke a deployed agent over the a2a protocol
  azd ai agent invoke --protocol a2a "Hello!"

  # Invoke the a2a protocol with a complete JSON-RPC request from a file
  azd ai agent invoke --protocol a2a -f a2a-request.json

  # Invoke with a file as the request body
  azd ai agent invoke -f request.json

  # Invoke a named agent with a file body
  azd ai agent invoke my-agent -f request.json

  # Invoke locally (agent must be running via 'azd ai agent run')
  azd ai agent invoke --local "Hello!"

  # Invoke a specific agent locally (useful in multi-agent projects)
  azd ai agent invoke my-agent --local "Hello!"

  # Start a new session (discard conversation history)
  azd ai agent invoke --new-session "Hello!"

  # Invoke a specific deployed agent version
  azd ai agent invoke --version 3 "Hello!"

  # Dump the raw server response (status line, headers, body) for debugging
  azd ai agent invoke --output raw "Hello!"

  # Send custom x-client-* headers (repeatable)
  azd ai agent invoke --client-header "x-client-request-id: abc123" --client-header "x-client-tenant: contoso" "Hello!"

  # Invoke a deployed agent from any directory using the endpoint URL shown by 'azd ai agent show'
  azd ai agent invoke \
	  --agent-endpoint https://<acct>.services.ai.azure.com/api/projects/<proj>/agents/<name>/endpoint/protocols/openai/responses?api-version=v1 \
       "Hello!"

Flags:
      --agent-endpoint string       Full endpoint URL of a deployed agent (run 'azd ai agent show' to see it). Invokes without requiring an azd project; protocol is derived from the URL.
      --call-id string              Call ID header value (sent as x-agent-foundry-call-id for local invocations only; ignored for remote requests)
      --client-header stringArray   Custom x-client-* request header in "Name: Value" format (repeatable). The responses and invocations protocols forward the x-client-* header family to the agent; other header names are rejected and the flag is not supported with a2a.
      --conversation-id string      Explicit conversation ID override
  -h, --help                        help for invoke
  -f, --input-file string           Path to a file whose contents are sent as the request body
  -l, --local                       Invoke on localhost instead of Foundry
      --new-conversation            Force a new conversation (discard saved one)
      --new-session                 Force a new session (discard saved one)
      --port int                    Local server port (default 8088)
  -p, --protocol string             Protocol to use: responses (default), invocations, or a2a (a2a is remote-only)
  -s, --session-id string           Explicit session ID override
  -t, --timeout int                 Request timeout in seconds (0 for no timeout) (default 1800)
      --user-identity string        User identity header value (sent as x-agent-user-id for local invocations and x-ms-user-identity for remote requests)
      --version string              Agent version to invoke (creates or reuses a session backed by that version)

Global Flags:
  -C, --cwd string           Sets the current working directory
      --debug                Enables debug and diagnostics logging
  -e, --environment string   The name of the environment to use
      --no-prompt            Runs without prompts. Uses existing values; fails if any required value or decision cannot be resolved automatically.
  -o, --output string        The output format (supported: default, raw) (default "default")
